h1. Site Search Implementation

# Publishing Framework
##dotCMS needs an extensible framework to be able to Publish Sites, Pages, Content, and other Objects to external systems.  Examples of different publishing activities can include:

##Publishing a site statically
##Publish/Index a site into a full-text index (site search)
##Publish content or a site to another server, via some mechanism
##Publish content into 3rd party systems or databases….

##For the site search impl, we can begin to lay the groundwork for future requirements like static publishing and the time machine concept.

##What we would like to see done is to create classes that take a PublisherConfig  - which is a Map/config file that specifies 1 or more “Publishers” which extend the “Publisher” class.  These Publishers take the PublisherConfig  and use a method called “process()” to do what needs to be done for the specific publisher.  There are a number of prebuilt values in the PublisherConfig but the class is just a java Map and custom configs can be created and custom values can be put if needed.  Currently, the PublisherConfig  has getters and setters for:


|Object|Getter Parameter|What?
|Host |hosts|The host to index
|List<Folder>|folders|If null, do all pages/files
|List<Structure>|structures|If null, do all Structures with a URL Map
|List<String> |excludePaths |Takes priority. Can start or end with *
|List<String> |includePaths|Is only used if exludePaths NOT set. Can start or end with *
|String|indexName|if not null, write the files/meta to this ES index
|File|rootWriteDirectory|if not null, where to write the static files
|int|numOfThreads|0=same thread, >0 number of threads to fire
|Date|startDate|only include if mod_date > startDate
|Date|endDate|only include if mod_date < endDate
|User|user|null=CMS Anonymous
|long|languageId|defaults to default language
|boolean|makeBundle|Whether to make a bundle (more later)
|String|luceneQuery|A lucene query that can be used to publish a set of contents
|List<Publisher>|Publishers|A list of “Publisher” classes to be fired in a specific order
|String|Id|The id of the bundle, which will be used to specify where things are to be published



# The “Bundle” concept
##Static publishing and the Site Search both require a page hit/page render to get the HTML of a webpage.  Our idea is to create a static “bundle” on the filesystem that can be used and reused when a Publisher is fired.  This means that when the publishing framework fires, the required objects will be generated into the bundle – these objects can be static files like HTML pages, folders and files, or even representations of the objects as displayed in the db as .xml 





# Indexing
##Site Index Stored in ElasticSearch
##Create an ES index mapping file that can be used specifically for SiteSearch
##In the PublisherConfig


