core-web/libs/create-app/README.md, before:

# 🚀 create-dotcms-app
A powerful scaffolding CLI that instantly generates modern frontend applications pre-configured to work seamlessly with **dotCMS** in headless mode.

With a single command, you can bootstrap a fully functional frontend (Next.js,Vue,Angular, etc.) connected to dotCMS APIs — including the following:

- Spinning up dotCMS using docker
- Universal Visual Editor pre configured
- Generating site id and authentication token (just copy paste them in frontend .env and enjoy).
---

## ✨ What is `create-dotcms-app`?

`create-dotcms-app` is a command-line tool that helps developers quickly spin up headless frontends powered by **dotCMS**.

It automates the tedious work of:

- Setting up a framework
- Connecting to dotCMS REST & GraphQL APIs
- Providing content-fetching helpers
- Adding example components & pages
- Creating environment variable templates
- Optional Setting up local dotCMS instance using docker.

This tool lets you focus on **building**, not configuring.

---

## 🎯 Why this project exists

dotCMS is a hybrid headless CMS with powerful APIs — but initializing a frontend manually takes time.

This CLI solves that by offering:

- **Frictionless onboarding**
- **Standardized project setup**
- **Fast prototyping & demos**
- **DevRel-friendly scaffolding for workshops & tutorials**
- **Production-ready integration patterns**

---

## 🛠️ Installation

Run using npx (recommended):

```sh
npx create-dotcms-app <project-name>
```

Or install cli globally

```sh
npm install -g @dotcms/create-app
```

## Usage

```sh
npx create-dotcms-app my-dotcms-site
```

This will:
-	Ask for the target directory
-	Ask which frontend framework you want (Next.js,Angular,Vue, etc.)
-	Ask if you’re using dotCMS Cloud or Local Docker dotCMS
-	Automatically scaffold your project
-	Configure UVE (Edit Mode Anywhere)
-	Start dotCMS (if using Docker)
-	Print required environment variables for your frontend


## Env variables

You will get the following env variables generated by cli **just copy and replace them in the frontend of the env and enjoy dotCMS in headless mode**.

```sh
Host (site) : http://localhost:8082
Site ID : 59bb8831-6706-4589-9ca0-ff74016e02b2
API Token : YOUR_API_TOKEN
```

## CLI Syntax

```sh
create-dotcms-app <project-name> [options]
```

| Option                  | Description                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-f, --framework <name>` | Skip prompts and directly choose a framework. Must be one of: `nextjs`, `react`, `vue`, `svelte`, etc. |
| `-h, --help`            | Show help menu                                                                               |
| `-V, --version`         | Show CLI version                                                                             |

Commit message:

removed vuejs and added beta version

core-web/libs/create-app/README.md, after:

# 🚀 create-dotcms-app

> 🚧 **Beta Notice:**
> This CLI is currently in **beta**. Features and APIs may change as we continue improving the tool.

With a single command, you can bootstrap a fully functional frontend (Next.js,Vue,Angular, etc.) connected to dotCMS APIs — including the following:

- Spinning up dotCMS using docker
- Universal Visual Editor pre configured
- Generating site id and authentication token (just copy paste them in frontend .env and enjoy).
---

## ✨ What is `create-dotcms-app`?

`create-dotcms-app` is a command-line tool that helps developers quickly spin up headless frontends powered by **dotCMS**.

It automates the tedious work of:

- Setting up a framework
- Connecting to dotCMS REST & GraphQL APIs
- Providing content-fetching helpers
- Adding example components & pages
- Creating environment variable templates
- Optional Setting up local dotCMS instance using docker.

This tool lets you focus on **building**, not configuring.

---

## 🎯 Why this project exists

dotCMS is a hybrid headless CMS with powerful APIs — but initializing a frontend manually takes time.

This CLI solves that by offering:

- **Frictionless onboarding**
- **Standardized project setup**
- **Fast prototyping & demos**
- **DevRel-friendly scaffolding for workshops & tutorials**
- **Production-ready integration patterns**

---

## 🛠️ Installation

Run using npx (recommended):

```sh
npx create-dotcms-app <project-name>
```

Or install cli globally

```sh
npm install -g @dotcms/create-app
```

## Usage

```sh
npx create-dotcms-app my-dotcms-site
```

This will:
-	Ask for the target directory
-	Ask which frontend framework you want (Next.js,Angular,Vue, etc.)
-	Ask if you’re using dotCMS Cloud or Local Docker dotCMS
-	Automatically scaffold your project
-	Configure UVE (Edit Mode Anywhere)
-	Start dotCMS (if using Docker)
-	Print required environment variables for your frontend


## Env variables

You will get the following env variables generated by cli **just copy and replace them in the frontend of the env and enjoy dotCMS in headless mode**.

```sh
Host (site) : http://localhost:8082
Site ID : 59bb8831-6706-4589-9ca0-ff74016e02b2
API Token : YOUR_API_TOKEN
```

## CLI Syntax

```sh
create-dotcms-app <project-name> [options]
```

| Option                  | Description                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-f, --framework <name>` | Skip prompts and directly choose a framework. Must be one of: `nextjs`, `react`, `vue`, `svelte`, etc. |
| `-h, --help`            | Show help menu                                                                               |
| `-V, --version`         | Show CLI version                                                                             |
