The dotCMS Enterprise License (the “Enterprise License”) Copyright (c)
2022 dotCMS Inc.

With regard to the dotCMS Software:

The software, source code and associated documentation files (the
"Software") under this directory may only be used or modified if you (or
the entity that you represent) have:

1. Agreed to and are in compliance with, the dotCMS Subscription Terms
of Service, available at https://www.dotcms.com/terms (the “Enterprise
Terms”) or have another agreement governing the licensing and use of the
Software between you and dotCMS and  otherwise have a valid dotCMS
Enterprise license for the correct number of nodes used by your or the
entity you represent.

2. Each dotCMS instance that uses this code in this directory or uses
the enterprise features enabled by this code is licensed under these
agreements and has a separate and valid dotCMS Enterprise server key
issued by dotCMS.

Subject to these terms, you are free to modify this Software and publish
patches to the Software if you agree that dotCMS and/or its licensors
(as applicable) retain all right, title and interest in and to all such
modifications and/or patches, and all such modifications and/or patches
may only be used, copied, modified, displayed, distributed, or otherwise
exploited with a valid dotCMS Enterprise license for the correct number
of dotCMS instances.  You agree that dotCMS and/or its licensors (as
applicable) retain all right, title and interest in and to all such
modifications.  You are not granted any other rights beyond what is
expressly stated herein.  Subject to the foregoing, it is forbidden to
copy, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

For all third party components incorporated into the dotCMS Software,
those components are licensed under the original license provided by the
owner of the applicable component.
